Agreement for Mix Operator

... (name, address, contact data)



Version: 24. September 2003

This agreement aims at ensuring resp. increasing the 
trustworthiness of the anonymity service. To reach this goal, 
the operators have to take technical and organisational
precautions for a high degree of privacy and security.

The signatory operates an anonymity host (in the following: mix). 
Together with other mixes, it forms a sequence called mix cascade. 
A cascade consists of a first mix, a last mix, and optionally 
several middle mixes. In particular, the nature of cascades 
implies that each mix has at most one predecessor-mix and one 
successor-mix. Mixes are connected, e.g., over the Internet.

Agreement of the Operator
-------------------------

With respect to the operation of the mix, the operator ensures 
the following:

- The mix operator is bound to the provisions of law.
- Neither log files containing information of the anonymised 
  connections nor the internal states (e.g., the permutation of 
  messages, session keys) are created or stored.
- Exchange and forwarding of data between the mixes is restricted 
  to what is required by the communication protocol specified in 
  the mix software. The mix software is operated only in the way 
  described in the specification.
- The operator prevents unauthorised access to the hardware used 
  for the mix. Physical access to the hardware is restricted by 
  constructional, infrastructural, and organisational means to 
  the persons required for the operation. Using authentication 
  mechanisms (e.g., password protection, possibly biometrics), 
  it is ensured that authorised persons can only access data that 
  they have right to access. Administrative network access to the 
  mix - if necessary - makes use of encrypted connections 
  ( e.g., SSH).
- The operator ensures that staff for system administration has 
  the skills, reliability, and time necessary for fulfilling their 
  tasks.
- The hardware and software is configured and maintained according 
  to the state of the art of security and privacy, i.e., in 
  particular spying on data by third parties (e.g., by means of 
  computer viruses, Trojan horses) is prevented. Known security 
  leaks are fixed as soon as possible.
- The signatory agrees that the fulfilment of these agreements can 
  be verified by an independent privacy protection control 
  organisation at any time even without concrete reason.